Matter Evaporator "Needle"

Initially a military device. It was used by the Tashigans (planet Tashig, constellation Corona Borealis) to attack the planetary bases of the Reptilians (planet Silbet, constellation Canes Venatici) in the war 12,000,000 Earth years ago. Now the Tashigans and Reptilians are the best allies and partners in space technology.
Needle is an orbital weapon. For comparison, for example, when impacting from the orbit of Pluto to Earth, the Needle could form an energy beam on the Earth with a diameter of about 5 - 8 cm. Therefore, the device has the conventional name Needle.
When exposed to an energy beam, matter evaporates, therefore this device is called a matter evaporator. However, unlike the Flower, it is not yet clear how to separate and condense the resulting evaporated matter, for this reason the device can be used either for preliminary cutting of large asteroids with their subsequent cutting by the Flower, or for military purposes.
The device is a plasma concentrator from several microwave devices, a radiation former in the hard X-ray range and a linear accelerator with several magnetic lenses. Outwardly, it may seem that the device is quite difficult to repeat, but it is much easier to get the first results on it than even on the Flower, which requires precise adjustment of the Pendulum.
Considering the small size of the Tashishgan bodies and, as a consequence, the small size of their military tactical ships of attack and defense, all devices used on their ships of this type are very modest in size. In the original, the device is about 90 cm long and about 18 cm in diameter. From the components freely available on this planet, it was possible to assemble a device slightly larger in size, about 50 cm in diameter and about 2 m 40 cm in length. The assembled device had rather modest parameters for output power and quite serious energy consumption for start-up and stable operation. However, with optimization of the circuit and components, it is quite possible to obtain a device of acceptable dimensions, with understandable energy consumption from mobile sources and acceptable output power for military applications or work on the meteorite program.
  
